Injectable fillers, also known as dermal fillers,
are used to
smooth wrinkles, improve acne scars,
and plump areas like lips, cheeks, and chins.
Injectable fillers are usually gel-like substances
your doctor injects into the middle layer
of your skin, called the dermis.
The gel fills sunken areas to reduce wrinkles
and plump up your skin.
Some fillers help your body make collagen,
the protein that forms the building blocks of your skin.
Your doctor will explain which type of filler is right for you.
Depending on the type,
results may last several months or longer.
After you get fillers, you may have side effects like
swelling, bruising, redness, pain, rash,
and itchiness at and around your injection site.
More serious complications can happen if the filler
is accidentally injected into a blood vessel.
Talk to your doctor if you have questions
about possible side effects.